fix readme (#153)
lidofinance/lido-keys-api: rest-api.md

## API

> 

Reviewer: Add details that all endpoints returns meta field with data (and data details)

Author: each endpoint contains this information

Reviewer: But we can do it in one place and do not dublicate this info

> ### /keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get keys
```

Reviewer: This is endpoint name.
I prefer
Create key - post creation key
Get key - get one key
List keys - get list of keys
And similar to this

Reviewer: Let's use one describe format everywhere

Smth like this
```
### Endpoint name

What endpoint returns

> :warning: Some warns and other details 

Query:
- param - param details. param type?

Request example
`curl http://123.com/`

Response
```json
success response schema
```

**GET** `/v1/keys`

Endpoint returns list of keys for all modules.

Query:

- `used` - filter for used/unused keys. Possible values: true/false;
- `operatorIndex` - filter for keys of operator with index `operatorIndex`;

> ```typescript

Reviewer: We don't send ts bytecode, but json.
Maybe use json schemas here instead of ts interfaces?
```json
{
  "object": "list",
  "data": [
    {
        "index": 1,
        "key": "string",
        "depositSignature": "string",
        "used": true,
        "operatorIndex": 1,
        "moduleAddress": "string",
    }
  ],
}
```

Author: Let's wait here for one more opinion; as for me, TypeScript interfaces are more readable.

interface ELBlockSnapshot {
  blockNumber: number;
  blockHash: string;
  blockTimestamp: number;
}

interface Key {
  index: number;
  key: string;
  depositSignature: string;
  used: boolean;
  operatorIndex: number;
  moduleAddress: string;
}

class Response {
  data: Key[];
  meta: {
    elBlockSnapshot: ELBlockSnapshot;
  };
}
interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'GET' 'http://localhost:3000/v1/keys'
```

:::warning

> Response of this endpoint could be very large but we can’t have a pagination here since data could be updated in the process.

Reviewer: > No pagination available, because it returns data snapshot on specific block.

Do not use we or you in docs

:::

> :::warning

Reviewer: Maybe write it in the beginning?
All requests return 425 until the service is completely initialized.

If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

**GET** `/v1/keys/{pubkey}`

Return key by public key with basic fields. `pubkey` should be in lowercase.

```typescript
class Response {
  data: Key[];
  meta: {
    elBlockSnapshot: ELBlockSnapshot;
  };
}

interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}

class NotFoundException implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 404;
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'GET' 'http://localhost:3005/v1/keys/pubkey'
```

**POST** `/v1/keys/find`

Returns all keys found in db.

Request body:

```typescript
interface RequestBody {
  // public keys in lowercase

>   pubkeys: string[];

Reviewer: request body should be just list [] or dict {'pubkeys': []}?
Why not just list of keys?

Author: i think it is part of implementation. for doc we dont need dict as you noticed

}
```

Response:

```typescript
class Response {
  data: Key[];
  meta: {
    elBlockSnapshot: ElBlockSnapshot;
  };
}

interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/v1/keys/find' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"pubkeys": ["pubkey0 "]}'
```

:::warning
If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

### /modules

**GET** `/v1/modules`

> Endpoint returns list of staking router modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Endpoint returns list of staking modules.
```
or 
Endpoint returns list of Staking Router's modules.

interface Module {
  nonce: number;
  type: string;
  // unique id of the module
  id: number;
  // address of module
  stakingModuleAddress: string;
  // rewarf fee of the module
  moduleFee: number;
  // treasury fee
  treasuryFee: number;
  // target percent of total keys in protocol, in BP
  targetShare: number;
  // module status if module can not accept the deposits or can participate in further reward distribution
  status: number;
  // name of module
  name: string;
  // block.timestamp of the last deposit of the module
  lastDepositAt: number;
  // block.number of the last deposit of the module
  lastDepositBlock: number;
}

interface ELBlockSnapshot {
  blockNumber: number;
  blockHash: string;
  blockTimestamp: number;
}

class Reponse {
  data: Module[];
  elBlockSnapshot: ElBlockSnapshot;
}

interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'GET' 'http://localhost:3000/v1/modules'
```

:::warning
If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

**GET** `/v1/modules/{module_id}`

> `module_id` - staking router module contact address or id;

Reviewer: staking module

> Endpoint return information about staking router module;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns staking module details.
```

  moduleFee: number;
  /// @notice treasury fee
  treasuryFee: number;
  /// @notice target percent of total keys in protocol, in BP
  targetShare: number;
  /// @notice module status if module can not accept the deposits or can participate in further reward distribution
  status: number;
  /// @notice name of module
  name: string;
  /// @notice block.timestamp of the last deposit of the module
  lastDepositAt: number;
  /// @notice block.number of the last deposit of the module
  lastDepositBlock: number;
}

interface ELBlockSnapshot {
  blockNumber: number;
  blockHash: string;
  blockTimestamp: number;
}

class Reponse {
  data: Module;
  elBlockSnapshot: ElBlockSnapshot;
}

interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}

class NotFoundResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 404;
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'GET' 'http://localhost:3000/v1/modules/1'
```

:::warning
If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

### /modules/keys/

**GET** `/v1/modules/keys/`

> Return keys for all modules grouped by staking router module.

Reviewer: Returns all keys grouped by staking module

Query:

- `used` - filter for used/unused keys. Possible values: true/false;

> - `operatorIndex` - filter for keys of operator with index `operatorIndex`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `operatorIndex` - filter keys by operator index;
```

```typescript
class Response {
  data: {
    keys: Key[];
    module: Module;
  }[];
  meta: {
    elBlockSnapshot: ELBlockSnapshot;
  };
}

interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}

class NotFoundException implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 404;
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'GET' 'http://localhost:3000/v1/modules/keys?used=true&operatorIndex=1'
```

:::warning
If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

**GET** `/v1/modules/{module_id}/keys`

`module_id` - staking router module contact address or id;

> Endpoint returns list of keys for module.

Reviewer: Return list of keys related to staking module

```

:::warning
If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

**POST** `/v1/modules/{module_id}/keys/find`

`module_id` - staking router module contact address or id;

Returns all keys found in db.

Request body:

```typescript
interface RequestBody {
  // public keys in lowercase
  pubkeys: string[];
}
```

Response:

```typescript
class Response {
  data: {
    keys: Key[];
    module: Module;
  };
  meta: {
    elBlockSnapshot: ElBlockSnapshot;
  };
}

interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}

class NotFoundException implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 404;
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:3000/v1/modules/1/keys/find' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "pubkeys": [
    "pubkey"
  ]
}'
```

:::warning
If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

### /validators

**GET** `/v1/modules/{module_id}/validators/validator-exits-to-prepare/{operator_id}`

`module_id` - staking router module contact address or id;

> This endpoint will return N of oldest lido validators for earliest epoch when voluntary exit can be processed for specific node operator and specific `StakingRouter` module. Node operator will use this validators list for preparing pre-sign exit messages. API will find `used` keys of node operator and find for these public keys N oldest validators in `Validator` table. We consider active validators (`active_ongoing` status) or validators in `pending_initialized`, `pending_queued` statuses. Module tables state fetched from `EL` should be newer than `Validator` table state fetched from `CL`. Otherwise API will return error on request.

Reviewer: Maybe simplify this?

```
Returns list of 'active_ongoing' validators ordered by index for specific node operator in staking module.
> :warning: If the Validator table data is outdate compared to the key table, the API returns an error.
```
Rest move to endpoint documentation inside code.

Reviewer: Why validators are not fetched using block_number that used to fetch EL?

Author: I prefer to have more detailed description here. It might be useful for node operators.

Author: we cant fetch by block_number form CL, we need a slot

Reviewer: Yeah, if we know block - we know slot number

Query:

Only one filter is available. If both parameters are provided, `percent` has a high priority.

> - `percent` - Percent of validators to exit. Default value is 10.

Reviewer: What percent?
Add more details

Author: i think it is enough

Reviewer: Perhaps I would clarify that the percentage is from the operator’s validators, and not from all

Reviewer: Maybe smth like
`percent` - Percent of validators from NO to return. Works like pagination limit, but in percents.
And now this param is quite dangerous, I would prefer it doesn't exist)

> - `max_amount` - Number of validators to exit. If validators number less than amount, return all validators.

Reviewer: usually this param named `limit` - this is just part of pagination

Reviewer: Yeah. It works like pagination, so could use pagination instead of this param.
Just for future - less params - better

  blockNumber: number;
  timestamp: number;
  blockHash: string;
}

class Response {
  data: Validator[];
  meta: {
    clBlockSnapshot: CLBlockSnapshot;
  };
}

interface HttpException {
  statusCode: number;
  message: string;
}

class TooEarlyResponse implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 425;
  message: string = 'Too early response';
}

class NotFoundException implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 404;
}

class InternalServerErrorExceptionNotActualData implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 500;
  message: string = 'Last Execution Layer block number in our database older than last Consensus Layer';
}

class InternalServerErrorExceptionDisable implements HttpException {
  statusCode: number = 500;
  message: string = 'Validators Registry is disabled. Check environment variables';
}
```

Example:

```
curl -X 'GET' 'http://localhost:3000/v1/modules/1/validators/validator-exits-to-prepare/1?percent=10'
```

:::warning
If API returns 425 code, it means database is not ready for work
:::

**GET** `/v1/modules/{module_id}/validators/generate-unsigned-exit-messages/{operator_id}`

`module_id` - staking router module contact address or id;

> Return unsigned exit messages for N oldest validators for earliest epoch when voluntary exit can be processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns unsigned exit messages for validators sorded by activation_epoch?.
```

Author: i think better to highlight number. default is 10%

Author: and this `for earliest epoch when voluntary exit can be processed.` also important

Reviewer: `N oldest` looks weird.  
Returns unsigned exit messages for validators sorted by activation_epoch that are eligible to exit.
